---
layout: post
title: "[Codeforces 1375G] Tree Modification"
date: 2020-07-26 20:01
category: algorithm
author: zzz
tags: [Codeforces, Inductive, Tree]
summary: 
---

## Problem Description
[Problem Link](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1375/G)
You are given a tree with n vertices. You are allowed to modify the structure of the tree through the following multi-step operation:

1. Choose three vertices a, b, and c such that b is adjacent to both a and c.
2. For every vertex d other than b that is adjacent to a, remove the edge connecting d and a and add the edge connecting d and c.
3. Delete the edge connecting a and b and add the edge connecting a and c.

Find the minimum number of operations that must be performed to transform the tree into a star. A star is a tree with one vertex of degree n−1, called its center, and n−1 vertices of degree 1.

## Solution

Let's consider a simplified version, the same question on a tree with fixed root and we are turning the tree to a star with root of degree n-1.
1. First, we need to apply the operation with root as `c`, a vertex of depth 1 as `b`, and a vertex of depth 2 as `a`. There are `number of vertices of depth 2` operations in total.
2. After the operation, the subtree with sub root as a vertex of depth `3`, connects to the root. From the subtree, we need to continue to apply the operation. There are `number of vertices of depth 4` operations in total.
3. Therefore, the answer of the simplified problem is `number of vertices of even depth - 1(the root)`.

`Vertices of even depth` could be `vertices of odd depth` if we choose the root differently. There are only two possible answers and we can choose the min of them.

### Looking back

By applying the methods of `transformation to a simple problem`, and `merging the operations`, the problem can be easily solved.
